1. Biophys J. 2000 May;78(5):2392-404.

Action potential and contractility changes in [Na(+)](i) overloaded cardiac
myocytes: a simulation study.

Faber GM(1), Rudy Y.

Author information: 
(1)Cardiac Bioelectricity Research and Training Center and Department of
Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University, Cleveland, Ohio
44106-7207 USA.

Sodium overload of cardiac cells can accompany various pathologies and induce
fatal cardiac arrhythmias. We investigate effects of elevated intracellular
sodium on the cardiac action potential (AP) and on intracellular calcium using
the Luo-Rudy model of a mammalian ventricular myocyte. The results are: 1) During
rapid pacing, AP duration (APD) shortens in two phases, a rapid phase without
Na(+) accumulation and a slower phase that depends on [Na(+)](i). 2) The rapid
APD shortening is due to incomplete deactivation (accumulation) of I(Ks). 3) The 
slow phase is due to increased repolarizing currents I(NaK) and reverse-mode
I(NaCa), secondary to elevated [Na(+)](i). 4) Na(+)-overload slows the rate of AP
depolarization, allowing time for greater I(Ca(L)) activation; it also enhances
reverse-mode I(NaCa). The resulting increased Ca(2+) influx triggers a greater
[Ca(2+)](i) transient. 5) Reverse-mode I(NaCa) alone can trigger Ca(2+) release
in a voltage and [Na(+)](i)-dependent manner. 6) During I(NaK) block, Na(+) and
Ca(2+) accumulate and APD shortens due to enhanced reverse-mode I(NaCa);
contribution of I(K(Na)) to APD shortening is negligible. By slowing AP
depolarization (hence velocity) and shortening APD, Na(+)-overload acts to
enhance inducibility of reentrant arrhythmias. Shortened APD with elevated
[Ca(2+)](i) (secondary to Na(+)-overload) also predisposes the myocardium to
arrhythmogenic delayed afterdepolarizations.

PMCID: PMC1300828
PMID: 10777735  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]