1. Biol Cybern. 1994;71(4):281-91.

Analysis of bursting in a thalamic neuron model.

Rush ME(1), Rinzel J.

Author information: 
(1)Mathematical Research Branch, NIDDK, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
MD 20892.

We extend a quantitative model for low-voltage, slow-wave excitability based on
the T-type calcium current (Wang et al. 1991) by juxtaposing it with a
Hodgkin-Huxley-like model for fast sodium spiking in the high voltage regime to
account for the distinct firing modes of thalamic neurons. We employ bifurcation 
analysis to illustrate the stimulus-response behavior of the full model under
both voltage regimes. The model neuron shows continuous sodium spiking when
depolarized sufficiently from rest. Depending on the parameters of calcium
current inactivation, there are two types of low-voltage responses to a
hyperpolarizing current step: a single rebound low threshold spike (LTS) upon
release of the step and periodic LTSs. Bursting is seen as sodium spikes ride the
LTS crest. In both cases, we analyze the LTS burst response by projecting its
trajectory into a fast/slow phase plane. We also use phase plane methods to show 
that a potassium A-current shifts the threshold for sodium spikes, reducing the
number of fast sodium spikes in an LTS burst. It can also annihilate periodic
bursting. We extend the previous work of Rose and Hindmarsh (1989a-c) for a
thalamic neuron and propose a simpler model for thalamic activity. We consider
burst modulation by using a neuromodulator-dependent potassium leakage
conductance as a control parameter. These results correspond with experiments
showing that the application of certain neurotransmitters can switch firing
modes.

PMID: 7948220  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]