1. Biophys J. 2011 Feb 2;100(3):554-63. doi: 10.1016/j.bpj.2010.12.3716.

Roles of subcellular Na+ channel distributions in the mechanism of cardiac
conduction.

Tsumoto K(1), Ashihara T, Haraguchi R, Nakazawa K, Kurachi Y.

Author information: 
(1)The Center for Advanced Medical Engineering and Informatics, Osaka University,
Osaka, Japan.

The gap junction and voltage-gated Na(+) channel play an important role in the
action potential propagation. The purpose of this study was to elucidate the
roles of subcellular Na(+) channel distribution in action potential propagation. 
To achieve this, we constructed the myocardial strand model, which can calculate 
the current via intercellular cleft (electric-field mechanism) together with
gap-junctional current (gap-junctional mechanism). We conducted simulations of
action potential propagation in a myofiber model where cardiomyocytes were
electrically coupled with gap junctions alone or with both the gap junctions and 
the electric field mechanism. Then we found that the action potential propagation
was greatly affected by the subcellular distribution of Na(+) channels in the
presence of the electric field mechanism. The presence of Na(+) channels in the
lateral membrane was important to ensure the stability of propagation under
conditions of reduced gap-junctional coupling. In the poorly coupled tissue with 
sufficient Na(+) channels in the lateral membrane, the slowing of action
potential propagation resulted from the periodic and intermittent dysfunction of 
the electric field mechanism. The changes in the subcellular Na(+) channel
distribution might be in part responsible for the homeostatic excitation
propagation in the diseased heart.

Copyright Â© 2011 Biophysical Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights
reserved.

PMCID: PMC3030217
PMID: 21281569  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]