1. Circ Res. 1991 Jun;68(6):1501-26.

A model of the ventricular cardiac action potential. Depolarization,
repolarization, and their interaction.

Luo CH(1), Rudy Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

A mathematical model of the membrane action potential of the mammalian
ventricular cell is introduced. The model is based, whenever possible, on recent 
single-cell and single-channel data and incorporates the possibility of changing 
extracellular potassium concentration [K]o. The fast sodium current, INa, is
characterized by fast upstroke velocity (Vmax = 400 V/sec) and slow recovery from
inactivation. The time-independent potassium current, IK1, includes a
negative-slope phase and displays significant crossover phenomenon as [K]o is
varied. The time-dependent potassium current, IK, shows only a minimal degree of 
crossover. A novel potassium current that activates at plateau potentials is
included in the model. The simulated action potential duplicates the
experimentally observed effects of changes in [K]o on action potential duration
and rest potential. Physiological simulations focus on the interaction between
depolarization and repolarization (i.e., premature stimulation). Results
demonstrate the importance of the slow recovery of INa in determining the
response of the cell. Simulated responses to periodic stimulation include
monotonic Wenckebach patterns and alternans at normal [K]o, whereas at low [K]o
nonmonotonic Wenckebach periodicities, aperiodic patterns, and enhanced
supernormal excitability that results in unstable responses ("chaotic activity") 
are observed. The results are consistent with recent experimental observations,
and the model simulations relate these phenomena to the underlying ionic channel 
kinetics.

PMID: 1709839  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]