1. J Neurosci. 2002 Apr 1;22(7):2963-76.

Activity patterns in a model for the subthalamopallidal network of the basal
ganglia.

Terman D(1), Rubin JE, Yew AC, Wilson CJ.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Mathematics, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio 43210,
USA. terman@math.ohio-state.edu

Based on recent experimental data, we have developed a conductance-based
computational network model of the subthalamic nucleus and the external segment
of the globus pallidus in the indirect pathway of the basal ganglia. Computer
simulations and analysis of this model illuminate the roles of the coupling
architecture of the network, and associated synaptic conductances, in modulating 
the activity patterns displayed by this network. Depending on the relationships
of these coupling parameters, the network can support three general classes of
sustained firing patterns: clustering, propagating waves, and repetitive spiking 
that may show little regularity or correlation. Each activity pattern can occur
continuously or in discrete episodes. We characterize the mechanisms underlying
these rhythms, as well as the influence of parameters on details such as spiking 
frequency and wave speed. These results suggest that the subthalamopallidal
circuit is capable both of correlated rhythmic activity and of irregular
autonomous patterns of activity that block rhythmicity. Increased striatal input 
to, and weakened intrapallidal inhibition within, the indirect pathway can switch
the behavior of the circuit from irregular to rhythmic. This may be sufficient to
explain the emergence of correlated oscillatory activity in the
subthalamopallidal circuit after destruction of dopaminergic neurons in
Parkinson's disease and in animal models of parkinsonism.

PMID: 11923461  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]