1. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2011 Nov;1812(11):1452-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bbadis.2011.07.011. Epub 2011 Jul 24.

Identification and functional characterization of KCNQ1 mutations around the exon
7-intron 7 junction affecting the splicing process.

Tsuji-Wakisaka K(1), Akao M, Ishii TM, Ashihara T, Makiyama T, Ohno S, Toyoda F, 
Dochi K, Matsuura H, Horie M.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Cardiovascular and Respiratory Medicine, Shiga University of
Medical Science, Otsu, Japan.

BACKGROUND: KCNQ1 gene encodes the delayed rectifier K(+) channel in cardiac
muscle, and its mutations cause long QT syndrome type 1 (LQT1). Especially
exercise-related cardiac events predominate in LQT1. We previously reported that 
a KCNQ1 splicing mutation displays LQT1 phenotypes.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We identified novel mutation at the third base of intron 7
(IVS7 +3A>G) in exercise-induced LQT1 patients. Minigene assay in COS7 cells and 
RT-PCR analysis of patients' lymphocytes demonstrated the presence of exon
7-deficient mRNA in IVS7 +3A>G, as well as c.1032G>A, but not in c.1022C>T.
Real-time RT-PCR demonstrated that both IVS7 +3A>G and c.1032G>A carrier
expressed significant amounts of exon-skipping mRNAs (18.8% and 44.8% of total
KCNQ1 mRNA). Current recordings from Xenopus oocytes injected cRNA by simulating 
its ratios of exon skipping displayed a significant reduction in currents to 64.8
± 4.5% for IVS7 +3A>G and to 41.4 ± 9.5% for c.1032G>A carrier, respectively,
compared to the condition without splicing error. Computer simulation
incorporating these quantitative results revealed the pronounced QT prolongation 
under beta-adrenergic stimulation in IVS7 +3A>G carrier model.
CONCLUSION: Here we report a novel splicing mutation IVS7 +3A>G, identified in a 
family with mild form LQT1 phenotypes, and examined functional outcome in
comparison with three other variants around the exon 7-intron 7 junction. In
addition to c.1032G>A mutation, IVS7 +3A>G generates exon-skipping mRNAs, and
thereby causing LQT1 phenotype. The severity of clinical phenotypes appeared to
differ between the two splicing-related mutations and to result from the amount
of resultant mRNAs and their functional consequences.

2011 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

PMID: 21810471  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]