1. Biophys J. 2007 Mar 1;92(5):1522-43. Epub 2006 Dec 8.

Kinetic properties of the cardiac L-type Ca2+ channel and its role in myocyte
electrophysiology: a theoretical investigation.

Faber GM(1), Silva J, Livshitz L, Rudy Y.

Author information: 
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Case Western Reserve University,
Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

The L-type Ca(2+) channel (Ca(V)1.2) plays an important role in action potential 
(AP) generation, morphology, and duration (APD) and is the primary source of
triggering Ca(2+) for the initiation of Ca(2+)-induced Ca(2+)-release in cardiac 
myocytes. In this article we present: 1), a detailed kinetic model of Ca(V)1.2,
which is incorporated into a model of the ventricular mycoyte where it interacts 
with a kinetic model of the ryanodine receptor in a restricted subcellular space;
2), evaluation of the contribution of voltage-dependent inactivation (VDI) and
Ca(2+)-dependent inactivation (CDI) to total inactivation of Ca(V)1.2; and 3),
description of dynamic Ca(V)1.2 and ryanodine receptor channel-state occupancy
during the AP. Results are: 1), the Ca(V)1.2 model reproduces experimental
single-channel and macroscopic-current data; 2), the model reproduces rate
dependence of APD, [Na(+)](i), and the Ca(2+)-transient (CaT), and restitution of
APD and CaT during premature stimuli; 3), CDI of Ca(V)1.2 is sensitive to Ca(2+) 
that enters the subspace through the channel and from SR release. The relative
contributions of these Ca(2+) sources to total CDI during the AP vary with time
after depolarization, switching from early SR dominance to late Ca(V)1.2
dominance. 4), The relative contribution of CDI to total inactivation of Ca(V)1.2
is greater at negative potentials, when VDI is weak; and 5), loss of VDI due to
the Ca(V)1.2 mutation G406R (linked to the Timothy syndrome) results in APD
prolongation and increased CaT.

PMCID: PMC1796810
PMID: 17158566  [PubMed - indexed for MEDLINE]